ghosting : an optical phenomena caused by reflections (double-bounce,
typically) (give example: 98 % transmission -> 2 % bounces back, hits
second surface (also with 98% reflections) and 2% bounces back again.
Location where bounces depends on shape and location of two reflecting
surfaces.)

Geometric properties mostly wavelength-independent. In principle, the
pattern can change subtly as well, but generally not (and particularly
true for LSST because the optical power for LSST is near unity
.. incident f number nearly unchanged by time reaches the focal
plane).

Intensity can change with wavelength, because wavelength dependence in
transmission function of surfaces and silicon sensors & their
anti-reflection coatings.

Easiest ghost to understand/visualize is CCD surface / Lens3 (dewar
window).  Creates out of focus image, called 'ghost image'.

Ghost images are property of optical surfaces. Not a property or
result of scattering. Should be predictable based on optical element
positions and knowledge of transmission coatings. Can predict
positions better than 5%.

2 ghost images with highest intensities are : CCD + lens3 (back to
sensor). Other: reflection between two surfaces of filter (bottom
surface of filter / top of filter / back to sensor) ... brighter
because filter is thin and so image closer to being in focus. Filters
have dichroic coatings, so depend on angle of incidence and filter
ghost is at different angle ... so preferentially more of the ghost
intensity is produced near edge of the filters (due to the shift + due
to 50% higher reflection). color of filter ghost can be different than
color of original source. Filter ghost prediction requires knowledge
of filter 'recipe' (prescription for filter coating).

In general, path of ghosts in axisymmetric optical system, will result
in ghosts being axisymmetric. As off-axis, the pattern of ghosts
deviates and spreads out linearly, in predictable pattern.

Pupil ghost: it's like all the other ghosts (double-reflection) but is
special because it does not move when source moves in the field of
view. Still caused by a double-surface bounce, but ghost always shows
up in the same place, on-axis/centered. Pupil ghost caused by
'conspiracy of geometry' so that just those two surfaces involved in
pupil ghost == image of primary, close to focal plane (few mm behind
focal plane). Total intensity of pupil ghost dependent on total flux
through system. Other ghosts: relevant intensity depends only on
intensity of one source.

All 3-element correctors produce a pupil ghost. (brightness may depend
on exact location / size/focus of pupil ghost).

The 3 mirror telescope produces good images, esp on-axis. But when
added cryogenic focal plane (thus in vacuum, in dewar) -- then need
correctors to fix imaging performance (dewar window produces chromatic
and spherical aberration).  Fix with +/- lens pair (L1/L2). Then
corrected for problems of dewar window, so add another one to make
flat focal plane.


Ghost in images/from stars -> show up and easy to recognize.

Ghost from flat field -> still there, many points of light, but *can't
see* donuts/ghosts. Every point source is creating its own ghost.
With a perfect flat screen, with no ghosts - perfectly uniform flat.
Adding ghost -> then have spatial dependency. Presumably low-order
shape. (simulation of this is on Chuck's list 'todo').

if apply flat + ghost == multiplicative error.  pupil ghost = additive
component, doesn't come out in illumination correction.  Even if flat
field corrupted by multiplicative component, need to *subtract* pupil
ghost first.  [write math, follow along]

Everything above: only optical reflections.

-- 

Diffuse scattering: light that arrives to the focal plane following
non-optical path (by an optical path == path that's defined purely by
optical design, including ghost paths ... beam into
primary/secondary/tertiary/camera optics). All surfaces (structural +
optical) assigned scattering function, depending on angle of
incidence, wavelength.

light incident on primary mirror : probability that will be reflected
(follow optical path), absorbed, or scattered (go off at angle that
does not follow optical path). Lambertian function for scattering
(highest probability is reflected along geometric path, then
prob. falls steeply) - reasonable probability that scattered off
geometric path, at some small angle (and stay inside optical
system!). This is why dirty mirrors lead to halos. Same reason why you
see halos around street lights when it's foggy.  Scattering: small
angle, large angle, grazing incidence. (BRDF) Large angle concerns:
moonlight hitting dome floor and into focal plane.  Large angle
scattering -- assume produces diffuse illumination on the focal
plane. Impacts local/regional sky background.  But can also occur with
dome screen + dome flats.  Corrupts ideal flat - is a multiplicative
effect, corrected by illumination correction.  Most of this scattering
comes from interior of camera/interior of telescope. (!)  

Any dependency of scattering on rotator angle? (take flats on series of
rotation angles).

Grazing incidence angle - at low angle, everything more
reflective. And polarization makes more complicated (but not usually
considering here, because we're not considering polarization ... but
dichroic filters tend to be polarization sensitive (can ask vendors to
reduce this polarization sensitivity)). Would increase rotator angle
sensitivity in flat field (if polarization preserved .. not so likely
to preserve polarization after multiple scatterings).  In telescope,
eliminated all major grazing incidence causes.

No tests involving 'blanking' out the secondary mirror. Not clear
usefulness, and involves risk/difficulty for secondary.

Make everything non-reflective as possible, dome screen on/off
exposures,

--

Stray light: overarching category of light going where you don't want
it to go! scattered light, ghost light, glints (unwanted light
recorded by focal plane with high spatial structure ... that isn't
from the other two sources.  Can't model glints. Focused star hitting
corner edge of CCD, with a small ding; will send light all over the
place & produces "glints". Light bouncing off one of the bond wires or
slightly curved surface in camera that focuses light in the focal
plane. ). Glints with high spatial structure usually originate from
something close to focal plane.